Our scripture here, Isaiah 64:8,
clearly establishes
that Jehovah God is the Potter
—the Great Potter, in fact—
and we are the clay.
Now, in what way is he molding us?
Well, one way is through adjusting
our Christian personality.
Now, how does he do that?
Well, he uses his Word
—the Bible—
his holy spirit,
and the Christian congregation.
So, what we’re going to do is talk
about how Jehovah helps
to mold our personality.
What’s the process that’s used?
We’re going to talk about two aspects
of the Christian personality
—humility and kindness.
So we said one way Jehovah uses
to mold our personality
is his Word, the Bible.
And Hebrews 4:12 says
that God’s Word has tremendous power.
So we take individual scriptures
as we are reading it;
we look at our own personality:
‘What does it say about me?
How can I improve?’
Let’s take an example: humility.
We are going to go to Philippians chapter 2,
verses 3 and 4.
We see how this is a powerful aid to us.
Here’s what we should do,
Philippians 2:3, 4:
“Do nothing out of contentiousness
or out of egotism,
“but with humility
“consider others superior to you,
“as you look not only for your own interests,
but also for the interests of others.”
So when we read this scripture,
we look at ourselves and say:
‘Well, how am I doing with this?
‘Do I see that I have made progress,
‘especially if this has been
an issue in the past?
‘Is Jehovah somehow nudging me,
adjusting me,
molding me by means
of this powerful scripture?’
Ask yourself about humility:
‘Am I the person that always seems
to be in charge?
‘Do I give that attitude across to others?
Or, as it says here,
Do I view others as superior?’
Maybe even we’re saying,
“I admit that that sister
has more patience than I have,”
or “That brother is really
a better teacher than I am.”
So, you see, by means
of individual scriptures,
Jehovah God can help to mold our thinking.
Now, in addition to the individual scripture,
the Bible also provides examples
of that quality in action.
And so the Watchtower  comment for today
uses Christ Jesus as an example of humility.
So let’s open to that scripture
(it’s referred to)
in Luke chapter 22.
And as we read the account,
we think: ‘What can I learn?
‘How did he handle it?
How can I apply it?’
So Luke 22:24
—this took place
the evening before his death.
It says: “However, there also arose
a heated dispute among them
over which one of them
was considered to be the greatest.”
Well, automatically we see
there’s a problem of humility here.
Well, so, let’s move down now
to verses 26 and 27.
He says: “You, though,
are not to be that way.
“But let the one
who is the greatest among you
“become as the youngest,
“and the one taking the lead
as the one ministering.
“For which one is greater,
“the one dining or the one serving?
“Is it not the one dining?
But I am among you as the one serving.”
Now, these were not just words,
because the apostles had seen
three and a half years of a beautiful example
of Jesus serving others
—truly a humble man.
And through our Bible reading too,
we have seen this example of humility
that we can apply.
So it’s good for us to ask ourselves:
‘Am I a proud person?
‘Do I give off that impression to others?
‘Do I view myself as “one dining”
or as “one serving”?’
Well, now, another way that Jehovah uses
to mold our Christian personality
is the holy spirit.
Now, how does that work?
Well, if you look at Galatians 5:19,
it talks about “the works of the flesh.”
And then in verse 22,
it refers to “the fruitage of the spirit”
—“works of the flesh,”
“fruitage of the spirit.”
Now, work
is a result of what one does.
It’s the product of your actions.
And so the apostle Paul lists,
as you see there, under “works of the flesh,”
various results that come
as a result of a conscious effort
on an individual’s part
or possibly because of human imperfection.
But, on the other hand, Paul talks
about “the fruitage of the spirit”
—not work, but the fruitage it results in.
And this is implying
that qualities that are listed there
as fruitage of the spirit
are not the result of some sort
of program we get into
to adjust our character,
but it’s the operation of God’s spirit
upon the individual.
It’s this tremendous force
and power from Jehovah God
that moves us in certain ways.
It may be to recognize scripture
or to listen to counsel.
Yes, we need to pray for his holy spirit
so that we can develop
those Christian qualities that Paul mentions.
So when you look at verse 22,
one of those qualities is kindness.
How important is that
for the Christian personality?
So when the Great Potter looks at us,
does he see a need for adjustments
in the way we display kindness to others?
See, are we praying to Jehovah God,
“Please, Jehovah, help me develop
this fruitage of the spirit”?
Here, again, the Bible gives examples
of individuals who had kindness.
It’s the quality in action, so to speak.
And in this case, Jehovah God, of course,
is the greatest example.
Here it is.
In Genesis chapter 3,
it describes in verse 7
that after Adam and Eve ate the fruit,
then they recognized their nakedness.
So what did they do?
“They sewed fig leaves together” as clothing.
But, now, in verse 21,
before putting them out of the garden of Eden
into the thorns and thistles,
what did Jehovah do?
Well, it says he ‘made long garments
out of skins to clothe them.’
Now, that’s the ultimate kindness.
See, we want to allow these examples
to touch us in ways
that move us to be kind to others.
Now, one benefit of kindness is
that people are drawn to that kind of person.
Proverbs 11:17 says this:
“A kind man benefits himself.”
It’s enjoyable being
around a kind person, isn’t it?
A kind person easily finds
and keeps good friends.
Now, the Ministry School  textbook says
that “one who is kind and mild-tempered
is gentle in his way of doing things.”
Now, under the chapter “Voice Quality,”
here’s what it says:
“People are greatly influenced
“not only by what is said
“but also by how it is said.
“If a person speaking to you has a voice
“that is pleasant, warm, friendly, and kind,
is it not true that you
are more inclined to listen favorably?”
Most certainly it is.
And I might say
that the November study edition
of The Watchtower  we just received
has a beautiful article in it entitled
“Kindness—A Quality Expressed
in Word and Action.”
So when it comes to our Christian personality
—especially involving humility and kindness,
as we’ve talked about today—
may each of us respond
to the molding of Jehovah God.
He uses his Word
—the Bible—
and he uses his holy spirit.
Now, we also said
Jehovah uses the congregation.
So may we all be responsive to counsel
that we receive either from the platform
or maybe individual counsel
to improve in these areas.
And if we respond correctly,
then we can say
as recorded at Isaiah 64:8:
“But now, O Jehovah, you are our Father.
“We are the clay, and you are our Potter;
we are all the work of your hand.”